Create testing standard (#320)
UKHomeOffice/engineering-guidance-and-standards: docs/standards/developer-testing.md

---
layout: standard
order: 1
title: Developer Testing
date: 2024-01-05
id: SEGAS-00013
tags:
  - Software design
  - Ways of working
  - Testing
related:
  sections:
    - title: Related links

>       items:

Reviewer: Items are missing in Related links. If there are no related links, this can be removed

---

Testing code forms part of the core of developing code. Testing your changes is necessary to gain assurance that they can be deployed safely to production and that the service will still function as expected.

The intent of any test should be clear as they can provide a form of documentation to the overall solution.

> The tests should be relatively easy to understand with a track of the overall testing coverage kept. Strong test coverage of a code base contributes towards overall quality of application code, although depending on your application context, it may not necessarily be the only definitive marker of quality code.

Reviewer: Hi, I have a few suggestions around this to consider;

```suggestion
The tests should be easy to understand with a track of the overall testing coverage kept. Strong test coverage of a code base contributes towards overall quality of application code, although depending on your application context, it may not necessarily be the only definitive marker of quality code.
```

As this is a Standard it needs to be assertive. "relatively" is subjective, so we should tend more to the assertive "tests should be easy to understand".

----------

`with a track of the overall testing coverage kept` 

Could this be elaborated on, I'm not sure I fully understand the implementation of this. Where and how should this record be maintained?

A good test should be clear on the intent of the test, have one test case, be readable and should pass every time without changes to the underlying code.

> Testing can come in different forms, unit/integration/mutation/property based, but all must adhere to the requirements as the following benefits can be achieved:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing can come in different forms, for example unit/integration/mutation/property based, but all must adhere to the requirements as the following benefits can be achieved:
```

Added "for example" here, to account for missing types. As this Standard isn't referencing a particular type you could also include performance testing, accessibility testing, security testing, penetration testing, load testing, device testing, etc

> - Easy to correct failures in code from failed tests.
> - Security & confidence when continously integrating code
> - Easy to understand intent and functionality of code
> - Tests are owned by the same team who owns the code and not within a silo external to the team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Easy to correct failures in code from failed tests
- Security & confidence when continously integrating code
- Easy to understand intent and functionality of code
- Tests are owned by the same team who owns the code and not within a silo external to the team
```

Grammar correction

---

## Requirement(s)

- [You MUST test early and often](#you-must-test-early-and-often)
- [You MUST automate tests](#you-must-automate-tests)
- [You MUST make tests repeatable](#you-must-make-tests-repeatable)
- [You MUST have a way of measuring the effectiveness of testing](#you-must-have-a-way-of-measuring-the-effectiveness-of-testing)
- [Tests MUST have a purpose and explicit result](#tests-must-have-a-purpose-and-explicit-result)
- [You MUST think about the edge cases](#you-must-think-about-the-edge-cases)

### You MUST test early and often

> Writing tests early and often in a software development process tends to reduce the amount of time spent debugging. Good tests written early generally helps improve the overall assurance and design quality of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing tests early and often in a software development process tends to reduce the amount of time spent debugging. Good tests written early generally helps improve the overall assurance and design quality of your application.
```

"tends to" and "generally" makes this a bit vague. If this is a MUST, we should be explicit in why I should test early and often.

This is also tending towards unit tests, but the Standard is type-agnostic.

> Test Driven Development (TDD) is a valuable development approach that can help towards achieving this. This development approach encourages you to think ahead on how your requirements can be met by thinking on how your solution can be tested first at unit level. Once a test is written first albeit failing due to non-existing solution, you can implement your solution to pass the test, and then refactor. "Testing early and often" in this case leads to "refactoring early and often", which continuously improves the quality of your application code and design.

Reviewer: This is more commonly referred to as the Red, Green, Refactor approach

https://www.codecademy.com/article/tdd-red-green-refactor

Author: I've added this to the end of this paragraph, but think it's worth writing a pattern to show this, rather than linking to an article if you're happy with that?

### You MUST automate tests

Automating tests enables the tests to be run consistently and often. Automated tests can be run as part of a build pipeline, and block the pipeline if they fail. It also means code is tested often, making sure that everything is working as expected.

### You MUST make tests repeatable

> The ability to repeat the same tests gives confidence that if there is a failure, something has changed to affect that failure. The values that a test rely on shouldn't change based on environments, and tests such as unit tests should not depend on other external factors and dependencies (such as third party API, etc) to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability to repeat the same tests gives confidence that if there is a failure, something has changed to affect that failure. The values that a test rely on shouldn't change based on environments, and tests such as unit tests should not depend on other external factors and dependencies (for example third party APIs) to run.
```

### You MUST have a way of measuring the effectiveness of testing

You need to know whether your test effectiveness has changed over the course of your development and that you haven't had any regressions on your changes. Tracking this effectiveness over time helps to understand the landscape of your testing moving forward.

> One way of doing this is through monitoring test coverage, Test coverage helps a team understand the amount of code that is tested within a codebase. Setting a minimum threshold (such as 80%) ensures that any new code is tested. Another example is mutation testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way of doing this is through monitoring test coverage. Test coverage helps a team understand the amount of code that is tested within a codebase. Setting a minimum threshold (such as 80%) ensures that any new code is tested. Another example is mutation testing.
```

### Tests MUST have a purpose and explicit result

Tests must indicate why they are failing, showing expected and actual responses and the name of the test.

An example is through making sure pipelines fail when tests fail, and you're able to see more information about why.

> A test failing due to a regression often implies that a functionality has been added that contradict existing (and previous expectations), this should be reviewed to understand why this happened and what needs to be done to fix the regression issue. Although the area of concern may be unfamiliar, the information logged along with the test implementation should provide enough context to help with this review - in understanding what is being tested, what has gone wrong, and hence be able to reason about how the issue can be resolved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A test failing due to a regression often exposes an engineer to parts of the code they are not familiar with. The information logged along with the test implementation should provide enough context that they can understand what is being tested and what has gone wrong, and be able to reason about how they can resolve it.
```
My intent with this paragraph was to explain why it is important that "Tests MUST have a purpose and explicit result" which is to give context to an engineer interacting with the test and the behaviour it is verifying. It is targetted at the author of the test, so adding notes about how the engineer who sees the failing test should respond confuses things.

@oluashiruHO @aaronrussellHO  Happy to be challenged on this, but I don't think we should include the additional wording here. We could potentially add something somewhere else about being responsive to test failures if you feel that needs to be standardised.

Reviewer 3: So "a test failing due to regression often exposes an engineer to parts of the code they are not familiar with", isn't always the case - in fact I'd argue it's actually about 50% the case. An engineer can equally easily introduce regression with well-trodden paths - mainly due to complacency and over-confidence. 

My suggestion sets a background to what regression is at a basic level (leaving out assumption that what this means is clear), and that a failure would almost always need to be reviewed regardless of familiarity or not (because the cause of the regression could well have been due to over-familiarity / complacency and assumptions in the first place). 
I then proceed to highlights that it is important the test has all it needs for someone appropriate to be able to review and resolve successfully.

I also tried to remove reference to the word 'engineer' - because this is 'developer testing' doc, and depending on the layer of test being reviewed or context, the reviewer/resolver may not necessarily identify as an engineer, and is instead a 'developer', or neither - so thought to leave out whilst still making the same point.

The main difference I suppose between my view and yours is that, yours tries to cater to providing info and context in test mainly due to lack of familiarity, mine takes an approach that your test should have enough info and context for anyone that's appropriate to review and resolve successfully, regardless of levels familiarity with code base. Whilst also providing some info on the scenario where this would typically apply (regression - and what that is).
